# A simple ec2 project
1) Create a new folder /directory called: ec2-02
2) Create an ec2 instance named "FirstEC2" in your default region.
3) Use the ami of an ubuntu instance.
4) The instance size needs to be t2.micro

   to create an ec2 instance there are a no of ways. d first
   1) google aws_instance>takes u to  https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/3.1.0/docs/resources/instance
   since we are using aws as our provider, d naming convention always starts with aws and underscore then d resource u are looking for eg when u want to search for an ami it will be aws_ami.
b4 writhing this code,
d first thing i need to tell terra is who is my provider.
gotvscode and type provider ...

next is ur resource:
to provision an instance, u need 2 reqd aguements:
a)to create an aws instance, i need an ami. goto aws console>ec2>select ur region=ami are region
specific,>launh instance> if i want to lanch an ubuntu>click ubuntu>copy ami id and paste on your cli.
b)u also need instance type(reqd) =t2-medium etc

next pass a tag: when u provision an instance, u give it a name. that name is passed as a tag
with uppercase N. it u don't use uppercase it will appear under tag.
following terra naming covention everything is in lower cases except when u're writing names. 
we can pass multiple tags, and tags are a map bcos they are key value pairs
here d key = name, value = "FirstEC2"   d value is a string. strings are passed in " ".

provider "aws" {  #anything inside d curly brace is 
   region = "us-east-1"   #called a block- this is a provider blk
}
   
resource "aws_instance" "ec2" {  #resource blk, 
  ami = "ami-04b70fa74e45c3917"  #aws_instancee=rsource type
  instance_type = "t2.micro"     #ec2=resourcce name
  
                        
   tags = {
    Name = "FirstEC2"  
    }                   
}
USE UNDER TO CREATE AN EC2 INSTANCE.
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
provider "aws" {
   region = "us-east-1"
}

resource "aws_instance" "ec2" {
    ami = "ami-04b70fa74e45c3917"
    instance_type = "t2.micro"
    
    tags = {
        Name = "FirstEC2"
    }
}
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

monka@DESKTOP-0PEDM4P MINGW64 ~/OneDrive/Desktop/terraform-series (master)
$ cd ec2-02/

monka@DESKTOP-0PEDM4P MINGW64 ~/OneDrive/Desktop/terraform-series/ec2-02 (master)
$ ls
ec2.tf

monka@DESKTOP-0PEDM4P MINGW64 ~/OneDrive/Desktop/terraform-series/ec2-02 (master)
$ terraform init

Initializing the backend...

Initializing provider plugins...

Terraform has been successfully initialized!

You may now begin working with Terraform. Try running "terraform plan" to see
any changes that are required for your infrastructure. All Terraform commands
should now work.

If you ever set or change modules or backend configuration for Terraform,
rerun this command to reinitialize your working directory. If you forget, other
commands will detect it and remind you to do so if necessary.





