# Project 2
1) Create an ec2 instance
2) Use a script provided below to pass user data to the instance
3) Attach an elastic IP to the instance


```sh
#! /bin/bash
# Instance Identity Metadata Reference - https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/instance-identity-documents.html
sudo yum update -y
sudo yum install -y httpd
sudo systemctl enable httpd
sudo service httpd start  
sudo echo '<h1>Welcome to Landmark Technologies</h1>' | sudo tee /var/www/html/index.html
sudo mkdir /var/www/html/app1
sudo echo '<!DOCTYPE html> <html> <body style="background-color:rgb(250, 210, 210);"> <h1>Welcome to Landmark Technologies</h1> <p>Terraform Demo</p> <p>Application Version: V1</p> </body></html>' | sudo tee /var/www/html/app1/index.html
sudo curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/dynamic/instance-identity/document -o /var/www/html/app1/metadata.html
```
1) def a terra block
version 3 numbrs  a.b.c
a major ver: if something totally new is introduced - there are breaking changes in the Terraform language syntax, configuration format, or provider APIs.
d major ver is updated. 1.5.8 to 2.0.0  d minor and patch ver revert to zero

b minor ver:   Minor versions often include new functionality, improvements to existing features, or additions to provider capabilities., d minor ver. wil be updated say 1.5.8 to 1.6.0     d patch is revert to zero

c patch ver:  incrementing the patch version number usually indicates bug fixes, performance improvements, or other changes that do not affect the overall functionality or API compatibility.
Patch versions are typically backward compatible, and upgrading to a new patch version should not introduce any breaking changes or require modifications to existing configurations.
Patch versions are primarily released to address issues and ensure stability.everytime there is a patch this will be updated. say 1.5.7 to 1.5.8

 required_version = "~> 1.0" # which means any version equal & above 1.0 like 1.1, 1.2 etc and < 2.xx
 we should pay attention to terra vers when creating or maging our resources.
 if u don't specify d ver. terra revert to d latest ver.
 for flexibility we constraint it to d minor version. this is same for d ver for 
 aws passed inside d terra provider

  2) after constraining d ver of terra to use. next determine ur provider
if u don't pass d region and credential then d default region and default
credentials (profile) will be used.

4) next is d resource- we are creating an aws instance.
5) attach elastic ip :an Elastic IP is particularly useful in scenarios where you need a persistent public IP address that doesn't change even if the instance or resource it's associated with is stopped or replaced.

6) Next pass script in user data. user data is an agument inside ur resource
create a bash file in d dir eg httpd.sh. copy d user data into it.
d yum command is a redheart or linux command. check to ensure d instance u are
creating is linux os(prof just went to launh instance and copied ami of amazone
linux aws - meaning this is d instance that is being launched.

lets also tag d instance  Name = "Demo-ec2"
#passing d id = attribute of d instance
#file path is present wking dir


terraform {
  required_version = "~> 1.0"
  required_providers {
    aws = {
      source  = "hashicorp/aws"
      version = "~> 5.0"
    }
  }
}

provider "aws" {
  region = "us-east-2"
}

resource "aws_instance" "test_ec2" {
  ami           = "ami-02bf8ce06a8ed6092"
  instance_type = "t2.micro"
  user_data     = file("${path.module}/httpd.sh")

  tags = {
    Name = "Demo-ec2"
  }
}

resource "aws_eip" "my_eip" {
  instance = aws_instance.test_ec2.id
}

